SOLDIER Script

Based on HITMAN by Lawrence Block

Main Location: Roseburg, OR

Al Gordon (Keller): hitman posing as a new in town entreprenuer.
Ed Vandermeer (Burt Engleman): Owner of the Quik Print shop, former crooked accountant who went into witness protection after ratting out former employer
Betty Vandermeer (Betty Engleman): Wife of Ed/Burt, an animal lover

Synopsis:
SCENE1

We start out with an outside shot of this Quik Print shop.  Ed and Betty bustling away. Ed and Betty are just taking in the day.  How everything seems to be good and settled. Al walks in and seeks help with printing some copies of his flyer.  His dog, a part German Shepard named Soldier ran off.  Betty makes a few suggestions which Al takes down.  She motions to her husband Ed to seek his input.  Ed gives him a few tips and Al is thankful.  Al informs them he needs 50 copies.  Ed gets them for him and Al pays. They introduce themselves and Al leaves.  As he's about to head out, Ed gives him a business card just in case. 

SCENE2
Al goes to a Mexican cafe.  He orders an enchilada and notices the waitress has a wedding ring.  He thinks about how she must be working this job to help pay for the wedding and start a new life with her husband.  He imagines that the businesses in the small town would help in their many ways.  The photography studio would do their pictures, the quik print shop the invitations, and the credit jeweler's where her fiance got her ring. Living the American dream he thinks.  He smiles to himself and thinks about how nice it would be to live around here.

SCENE3
Two days later, Al returns.  Betty inquires about the dog. Al tells her that the dog actually found it's way back home.  His wife was estatic. Al confesses that he has another motive.  He wanted to see if he could speak with Ed about a possible business venture.  He's new to the town and wanted to get the word out.  Al suggests having a cup of coffee at a local place to hash things out. Ed obliges.  

SCENE4
As they walk to the local diner, Ed is stunned by what Al says next.  Al calls Ed by his previous name, Burt.  We learn that Burt was in fact an informant that went into witness protection. But he screwed up by getting caught with his wife out of town, in San Francisco, Keller explains. Keller asks him about this place and how Burt started this print shop business.  He seems to be taking a liking to this town.  Burt agrees the place is nice.  He doesn't want to move anymore.  Keller tries to empathize a bit and explains to him if he doesn't take Burt out, someone else will.  Burt has had enough of the moving and wants to stay put.  Like Keller says, if it's not him then it's someone else.  Keller tells Burt that he likes him and he'll think of something to see if there can be other "arrangements". 

SCENE5
We see Keller come out of a gun shop carrying a snub nosed revolver and a box of bullets.  He drives out of town and stops in the middle of nowhere.  He draws the gun, takes a few shots off, just to get a feel for the weapon in hand.  We see some sense of guilt or regret or remorse. 

SCENE6
The next day Keller and Burt have lunch at the same diner (small town after all).  Keller explains that he's taking a liking to Roseberg.  The hustle and bustle of NY has grown weary on him.  Keller then asks him why did he start a Quik Print business and not just start up another accounting firm.  Burt explains that he wanted to get away from that job. He's "out in the open" and nothing to hide here.  Burt asks him about the dog, and where he got the name Soldier from. Keller tells him that he had a dog once when he was young.  He describes the dog, he wasn't a part German Shepard like his imaginary dog.  The dog died, got hit by a car.  Keller says he used the name because using Fido or Rover would've been too generic.  Burt agrees.  

SCENE7
We then see Keller drive off into the woods again.  He pulls the gun out of his glovebox and stares at it for a bit.  He tosses the remaining bullets, throws the gun into some bush, and gets back in his car and drives back to town.  Keller notices an open house and decides to take a look.  He's greeted by an overly enthusiastic realtor who shows him around the house.  He's pleasantly surprised.  Even more so with the price. He could easily buy this place with what he's got saved up and still have enough to do any sort of renovations.  He starts to drift into thoughts of living in Roseberg.  The realtor snaps him back to reality as she asks him if he had any other questions or would like to make an offer.  Keller tells her it depends on if a pending business deal goes through or not, but he'd be in touch. 

SCENE8
Keller is now in his hotel room.  He calls his handler back in White Plains, NY and tells them he needs a few more days.  He tells her to tell the client that he missed his flight and he'll have to push his trip out a little longer.  Keller mentions to her that this place seems nice. He then calls Burt and asks him if he could meet tomorrow.

SCENE9
Keller picks Burt up in his car.  Burt is a bit jumpy at first.  He mentions how usually a person in his line of business asking someone to "take a ride" doesn't end well.  Keller explains he just wants to see the local sights.  He tells Burt that he has really grown accustomed to this place.  Even saw a place for sale.  Burt asks him wouldn't the client send somebody.  Keller thinks about it and mentions to Burt the only reason he's out here is because of the "eager beaver" that saw Burt in San Franciso.  The client hadn't really thought about him. Keller asks Burt if he misses NYC.  Burt is quick to say no. Burt then shows Keller around town and some of the beautiful scenic areas.  Keller takes it all in.

SCENE10
The next afternoon Keller is at the mexican cafe feeling good.  He orders his enchilada again from the same waitress.  As she brings his meal back he politely inquires about her wedding date.  She's taken back a little and then to Keller's surprise she says the ring isn't hers but her mother's from her first marriage.  She just took it from her because she thought it looked nice on her finger.  Keller is crushed but wrestles a smile to his face.  He barely eats his meal.

SCENE11
Keller is back in his hotel room.  He's a bit antsy.  The clock on his side table says 7:30 PM.  He calls Burt and asks him if they can meet at the print shop.  He tells Burt it's important.  Burt mentions they're having dinner and if it can wait.  Keller agrees and says he'll meet him in about an hour.

SCENE12
Keller is outside of the shop when Burt rolls his car to a stop behind Keller's car.  Keller thanks him for meeting him.  He explains he might have an idea on how to stay here and not worry about the client.  Burt opens up the shop and leads Keller inside.  Keller paces around the shop.  Keller points to one of the copiers in the back and asks him how it works. As Burt turns to look at the machine Keller was looking at, Keller takes a garrote and whips it around Burt's neck. Burt's body goes limp after just a few seconds.  Keller drops the lifeless body in a spot not visible to the outside and makes sure to clean his prints from anywhere.  He turns off the lights and closes up shop.  Keller gets in his rental car and after a pause, drives off.  

SCENE13
Keller's now in back in NY at JFK.  He calls Dot, his handler and tell her the job's done.  She asks how the flight back from Portland was, he said it was fine with a tinge of a somberness.  Dot asks him if he had fallen for the life out there.  He admits he did. She chides him and says he does this everytime.  He agrees to that as well.  He hangs up with her and put his phone in his pocket.  He notices something else in his pocket and pulls it out.  It's Ed's business card.  He looks at it for a moment then tosses it in a nearby bin and says "Jesus Ed, what was I supposed to do?"

END